server.yaml
===========

The ``server.yaml`` file is used to configure various aspects of the MXCuBE's back-end server.
The configuration file contains the following sections:

* server_
* mxcube_

See below an `example  server.yaml <server_yaml_example_>`_ file.

server
------

The ``server`` section primarily deals with the configuration of the network aspects of the back-end server.
It allows customizing the behavior of the Flask framework, its plugins and other components.
The section has the following syntax:

.. code-block:: yaml

    server:
      DEBUG: <boolean>
      SECRET_KEY: <secret key>
      SECURITY_PASSWORD_SALT: <password salt>
      SECURITY_TRACKABLE: <boolean>
      PERMANENT_SESSION_LIFETIME: <session lifetime>
      USER_DB_PATH: <db_file_path>
      CERT_KEY: <certificate key file path>
      CERT_PEM: <certificate pem file path>
      CERT: <ssl_mode>
      ALLOWED_CORS_ORIGINS:
        - <allowed URL>
        - <allowed URL>
        ...

The ``server`` section may contain keys as described below.

``DEBUG``
~~~~~~~~~

Whether Flask debug mode is enabled.
This is the equivalent of Flask's `DEBUG <https://flask.palletsprojects.com/en/2.3.x/config/#DEBUG>`_ configuration value.

Default value is ``False``.

``SECRET_KEY``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Flask's security signing key, for example for signing session cookies.
This is the equivalent of Flask's `SECRET_KEY <https://flask.palletsprojects.com/en/2.3.x/config/#SECRET_KEY>`_ configuration value.

``PERMANENT_SESSION_LIFETIME``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Session cookie's lifetime.
This is the equivalent of Flask's `PERMANENT_SESSION_LIFETIME <https://flask.palletsprojects.com/en/2.3.x/config/#PERMANENT_SESSION_LIFETIME>`_  configuration value.

``SECURITY_PASSWORD_SALT``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Password hashing salt.
This is the equivalent of Flask-Security-Too's `SECURITY_PASSWORD_SALT <https://flask-security-too.readthedocs.io/en/stable/configuration.html#SECURITY_PASSWORD_SALT>`_  configuration value.

``SECURITY_TRACKABLE``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Enables tracking of basic user login statistics.
This is the equivalent of Flask-Security-Too's `SECURITY_TRACKABLE <https://flask-security-too.readthedocs.io/en/stable/configuration.html#SECURITY_TRACKABLE>`_  configuration value.

Default value is ``True``.

``USER_DB_PATH``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Full path to SQLite database file, used for storing users and sessions data.

Default value is ``/tmp/mxcube-user.db``.

``ALLOWED_CORS_ORIGINS``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

List of origins that are allowed to connect to this server.
This list is passed via ``cors_allowed_origins`` parameter to the `SocketIO <https://flask-socketio.readthedocs.io/en/latest/api.html#flask_socketio.SocketIO>`_ class constructor.
Note that if this list is too restrictive, the front-end will fail to create a SocketIO connection to the back-end.

``CERT``
~~~~~~~~

Used to enable SSL and set the type of host certificate.
The following values are supported:

+--------+------------------------------------------------+
| NONE   | SSL disabled                                   |
+--------+------------------------------------------------+
| ADHOC  | SSL enabled, autogenerated certificate is used |
+--------+------------------------------------------------+
| SIGNED | SSL enabled, signed certificate is used        |
+--------+------------------------------------------------+

Default value is ``NONE``.

``CERT_PEM``
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Path of the certificate file to use for SSL connections.

``CERT_KEY``
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Path of the private key file to use for SSL connections.

mxcube
------

The ``mxcube`` section allows you to customize miscellaneous aspects of the MXCuBE application.
It contains settings for the on-axis video stream, user account management, and experiment mode.
The section has the following syntax:

.. code-block:: yaml

    mxcube:
      mode: <experiment mode>
      USE_EXTERNAL_STREAMER: <boolean>
      VIDEO_FORMAT: <format name>
      VIDEO_STREAM_URL: <stream URL>
      VIDEO_STREAM_PORT: <stream port>
      usermanager:
        class: <class name>
        inhouse_is_staff: <boolean>
        users:
          - username: <user name>
            role: <role name>
          ...

The ``mxcube`` section may contain keys as described below.

``mode``
~~~~~~~~

Set the experiment mode for the application.
Different modes tailor the presented UI to be suitable for a specific type of MX experiments.
The following values are supported:

+--------------+--------------------------------------+
| mode         | experiment type                      |
+==============+======================================+
| OSC          | standard oscillation data collection |
+--------------+--------------------------------------+
| SSX-CHIP     | SSX fixed target experiments         |
+--------------+--------------------------------------+
| SSX-INJECTOR | SSX injector experiments             |
+--------------+--------------------------------------+

Default mode is ``OSC``.

``USE_EXTERNAL_STREAMER``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Use an external process to stream the sample view video.
When enabled, MXCuBE will invoke an appropriate hook on the camera hardware object to start the streamer.
It is assumed that the camera object supports the external streamer feature.

Default value is ``False``.

``VIDEO_FORMAT``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The format to use when streaming the sample view video.
The ``MPEG1`` and ``MJPEG`` formats are supported.
Note that your camera hardware object must support the specified format.

Default format is ``MPEG1``.

``VIDEO_STREAM_URL``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The URL that is used by the UI to fetch the sample view video.
When set, it will override the default video stream URL.
This configuration is primarily useful with external streams,
that provide video stream from custom URLs.

``VIDEO_STREAM_PORT``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This configuration is used when ``USE_EXTERNAL_STREAMER`` flag is enabled.
The specified value is passed on to the camera hardware object,
when invoking the start stream hook.

``usermanager``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This subsection allows configuring user management in the application.

``class`` specifies the class name of the user manager.
This allows using a custom implementation of the user manager if needed.

The default class name is ``UserManager``.

``inhouse_is_staff`` specifies if all in-house users should automatically acquire *staff* role.
Which users are considered in-house is managed by the session hardware object.

The default value is ``True``.

``users`` specifies users that should acquire additional roles.
The content of this key is a list of username and role specifications.
Currently, only the *staff* role can be specified.

.. _server_yaml_example:

server.yaml example
-------------------

Below is an example of a server configuration file ``server.yaml``, as used by the mockup beamline.

.. literalinclude:: ../../../demo/mxcube-web/server.yaml
   :language: yaml
